Add 2022-06-30 agenda and minutes (#62)
solid/notifications-panel: meetings/2022-06-30.md

### Subscription Request Response
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/72

* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-19.md#protocol-doesnt-mention-subscription-response re https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/57 .
* SC: Updated PR.
* CB: Will review after meeting.

### Add definitions for notification channel discovery and capabilities
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/70

* SC: There was plenty of time to review. Any objections to merge?
* SC: Okay, great.

### Interchangeable use of notification channel type and subscription type
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/71

* SC: I think we can/should review the modeling around this.
* SC: I think this is a bug. Lets come back to it with responses...
* SC: I'd like confirmation from the others before making changes.
* SC: From the spec:

```turtle
  <>
    notify:notificationChannel <#websocketNotification> .

  <#websocketNotification>
    a notify:WebSocketSubscription2021 ;
    notify:subscription <https://websocket.example/subscription> ;
    notify:features notify:state, notify:rate, notify:expiration .

> ```

Reviewer: GitHub can't handle the triple-backtick within a suggestion :-(

There should be two leading space chars on both the opening (line 126) and closing (line 134) codefences on the Turtle block, to make that block indent under the SC bullet within which it should fall...

Author: I've tried that and checked in preview. It mangles it further. I think the current 'looks' right. I may have misunderstood your suggestion but if you want to make a suggestion that fixed whatever appears to be broken now, I can consider/merge.

Author: I think https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/62/commits/cafdd1df6822c4e95390bc25f506929e8a2ab99c worked. The preview through the GH editor is not the same as the view file. Let me know if that wraps it up. Thanks for looking into this!

Reviewer: Looks good to me!

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.
* CB: Heads up that Apple announced iOS16 support for Web Push notifications. So it'll work across all devices. Safari didn't support but on MacOS they added 1-2 years ago but... people wanted it so now they know. The community is developers was very focused and Apple gave in.
* SC: More adoption is good sign.

> * RG: What are you mainly developing when it comes to push notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: What are you mainly developing when it comes to push notifications?
```

> * SC: I'm not currently developing push notifications but possible because dokieli can be used as a browser extension so that might help out to indicate when there is an annotation available on a document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: I'm not currently developing push notifications, but they might help to indicate when there is an annotation available on a document, when dokieli is being used as a browser extension.
```

* RG: Is there a server implementation that's going hand in hand with the notifications protocol we are developing here.

> * SC: So there are private and public implementations - some are experimental and some are waiting for a more stable version of the spec. I think this will happen in the next months when the Notifications Protocol will stabilise as much as it could any way, as well as the Solid Protocol. It's ongoing work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: There are private and public implementations. Some are experimental, and some are waiting for a more stable version of the spec. I think this will happen in the next months when the Notifications Protocol will stabilise (as much as it can, anyway), as well as the Solid Protocol. It's ongoing work.
```

> * CB: I'd like add re implementation, I have the demo implementation for Web Push. This works in a demo-way but there is still the issue how we model the subscription resource (Subscription resource as a container #[36](https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/36) ). Resolving this issue will help to adapt my implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CB: I'd like to add re implementation: I have the demo implementation for Web Push. This works in a demo-way, but there is still the issue of how we model the subscription resource (Subscription resource as a container #[36](https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/36)). Resolving this issue will help to adapt my implementation.
```

* SC: You should insist on feedback. If I miss in the agenda, propose as topic or use Gitter chat.
* RG: will review after meeting.

### Discovery of Notification Subscription Metadata
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/58

* SC: There is now `solid:storageDescription` in Solid Protocol ED ( https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/416 , https://solidproject.org/ED/protocol#server-storage-description )
* SC: This adresses some of the considerations wrt #58, how much we rely on the Solid Protocol and how much the Notifications Protocol covers.
* SC: There might be related comments in #76.

> * SC: Discovering the features that are available gives a good idea of what is missing. It doesn't matter where that place for discovery is, but now we have a reliable place where this information lives with the `solid:storageDescription`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: Discovering the features that are available gives a good idea of what is missing. It doesn't matter where that place for discovery is, but, with the `solid:storageDescription`, we now have a reliable place where this information lives.
```

> * SC: If the Notifications Protocol relies on that feature, then it can say what the channel/subscription information should be available there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: If the Notifications Protocol relies on that feature, then it can say what channel/subscription information should be available there.
```

* CB: Maybe a naive question: Why do we not rely on the .meta resource? 

> * SC: I think the URL for that is implementation specific - was it NSS? So we need a FYN type of approach, typically with a link relation to find that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: I think the URL for that is implementation specific — was it NSS? — so we need a FYN type of approach, typically with a link relation to find that.
```

* CB: Isn't that also in the Link-Header? 
* SC: Oh, I think you are describing the `describedby` relation which some implementations use `.meta` as the resource. That's related. That relation can be used on any resource about itself / quote, unquote metadata, but the storageDescription is only about the storage description in which the storage that the resource is in.

> * CB: I see, I thought that in such a meta resource, one could announce that for this resource such notifications would be possible, but if notifications are tied storage, then this makes more sense.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CB: I see, I thought that in such a meta resource, one could announce that for this resource, such notifications would be possible, but if notifications are tied to storage, then this makes more sense.
```

> * SC: Yea, that's part of the considerations in #58 e.g., endpoint per storage for all resources or unique endpoint per resource. Different ways to go at it.. we need to understand/weigh it out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: Yea, that's part of the consideration in #58, e.g., endpoint per storage for all resources, or unique endpoint per resource. Different ways to go at it... we need to understand/weigh it out.
```

> * SC: I don't think it makes a whole lot difference what the design is for clients. But matters for servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: I don't think it makes a whole lot of difference what the design is for clients. But matters for servers.
```

* CB: right.
* RG: Has there been any discussion on which way you want to go?

> * SC: I think we somehow defaulted to storage because that seemed "good enough" coverage. It would make the wiring of that information per resource more complicated, whether that's done by out of band by the server/owner or some specific mechanism that allows clients ot do it. It gets complicated for sure ot assign a different channel description info per resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: I think we somehow defaulted to storage because that seemed "good enough" coverage. It would make the wiring of that information more complicated per resource, whether that's done by out of band by the server/owner or some specific mechanism that allows clients to do it. It gets complicated for sure to assign a different channel of description info per resource.
```

> * SC: How important is the use cases to assign different channels for different resources in the same storages (or even in the same container).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: How important is the use case to assign different channels for different resources in the same storage (or even in the same container)?
```

> * RG: one client might have access to foo an dbar. another to foo but not bar. the second client connects, tries to access bar, that access should be foribidden in some way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: one client might have access to foo and bar. another to foo but not bar. the second client connects, tries to access bar, that access should be forbidden in some way.
```

> * CB: I imagine that's handled by the notification server/channel service the usual with the HTTP request would be handled by the authz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CB: I imagine that's handled by the notification server/channel service, the usual way the HTTP request would be handled by the authz.
```

* RG: What happens with bar inside foo?

> * CB: I am a client that has access to foo/ but not bar, then i'd be able to subscribe to foo/ and then the notification channel service accepts my request because i have access to foo/ and then if i want to subscribe to foo/bar then server will reject that because im not authorized. i'm not sure how this is related to how the channel is described.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CB: If I am a client that has access to `foo/` but not `bar`, then i'd be able to subscribe to `foo/`, and the notification channel service accepts my request because I have access to `foo/`. Then if I want to subscribe to `foo/bar`, the server will reject that, because I'm not authorized. I'm not sure how this is related to how the channel is described.
```

> * RG: you shouldn't be able to discover foo/bar
> * CB: that's from the server out of the box. For me it is fine to say i can discover notificatoin channel for a storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: You shouldn't be able to discover `foo/bar`.
* CB: That's from the server out of the box. For me, it is fine to say i can discover a notification channel for a storage.
```

> * SC: When you want to listen to a particular resource updates, and go through storage, it doesn't mean that you'll have a way of guessing/tricking the server to let it disclose anything about foo/bar (especially if you are not permitted to know its existence or description).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: When you want to listen to updates of a particular resource, and go through storage, it doesn't mean that you'll have a way of guessing/tricking the server to make it disclose anything about `foo/bar` (especially if you are not permitted to know its existence or description).
```

* SC: There are related issues to notification data, in which what that description reveals. So, servers will need to be careful to not expose / leak information more than necessary to enable the feature.
* SC: There are some aspects of privacy that we need to look at, e.g., what is revealed. 
* SC: Permission on the other hand is covered by the Solid Protocol.
* RG: Is there already an open issue.
* SC: #58 touches on that and also look on #76.

> * SC: The original was Updates-Via header that reveals the websocket endpoint for subscription. But the problem was that that websocket endpoint was not doing auth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: The original was `Updates-Via` header that reveals the websocket endpoint for subscription. The problem was that the websocket endpoint was not doing auth.
```

* CB: That is what I am using for my Web Push demo ... 
* SC: :) Well, you know what to do next.

> * RG: Why not eg. OPTIONS and unique endpoint URL?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: Why not, e.g., `OPTIONS` and unique endpoint URL?
```

URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/76

* SC: Talked with Tim about it (some specifics) but I didn't process the notes/review yet.
* CB: Just took a look at them, but have to look at the protocol document along side it.
* SC: I'll proccess/comment and update ED.

### Subscription Request Response
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/72

* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-19.md#protocol-doesnt-mention-subscription-response re https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/57 .
* SC: Updated PR.
* CB: Will review after meeting.

### Add definitions for notification channel discovery and capabilities
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/70

* SC: There was plenty of time to review. Any objections to merge?
* SC: Okay, great.

### Interchangeable use of notification channel type and subscription type
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/71

* SC: I think we can/should review the modeling around this.
* SC: I think this is a bug. Lets come back to it with responses...
* SC: I'd like confirmation from the others before making changes.

> * SC: From the spec:
> 
> ```turtle
> <>
>   notify:notificationChannel <#websocketNotification> .
> 
> <#websocketNotification>
>   a notify:WebSocketSubscription2021 ;
>   notify:subscription <https://websocket.example/subscription> ;
>   notify:features notify:state, notify:rate, notify:expiration .
> ```
> * SC: `notify:subscriptionType notify:WebSocketSubscription2021` or use `a notify:NotificationChannel` or both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: From the spec:

  ```turtle
  <>
    notify:notificationChannel <#websocketNotification> .

  <#websocketNotification>
    a notify:WebSocketSubscription2021 ;
    notify:subscription <https://websocket.example/subscription> ;
    notify:features notify:state, notify:rate, notify:expiration .
  ```

* SC: use `notify:subscriptionType notify:WebSocketSubscription2021`, or `a notify:NotificationChannel`, or both.
```
